Beta blockers prevent natural chemicals, neurotransmitters,
from overstimulating and damaging the body.
These neurotransmitters can attach to beta receptors all over the body,
including the heart, kidneys and eyes.
Neurotransmitters that attach to beta receptors can cause a faster heartbeat,
narrower blood vessels, and more fluid pressure in the eyes.
Beta blockers compete with neurotransmitters
to attach to the beta receptors and prevent their stimulation.
Beta blockers can target just one or a few different
locations to block the receptors.
In the heart, blocking the receptors slows the heart rate.
In the kidneys, blocking the receptors effects the hormone, renin,
and keeps the blood vessel walls open.
In the eye, blocking the receptors decreases fluid pressure.